today we're gonna talk about a totally
new topic known as inheritance to set
the stage let's consider the s List
class and the A List class that we built
over the last so many lectures so we see
that they have actually the exact same
operations they both let us add things
get things remove things get back to
size and if you did the discussion
worksheet available on the website or if
you're in the class at Berkeley then you
can then we added this insert method
they can insert to an arbitrary position
okay so given these classes we now want
to try and actually use them to do stuff
so what's something we might want to do
well let's just make a little tiny
pretend problem which is that we want to
build a library to help other people
process lists of words so maybe we want
to write a method that takes a list of
words and it finds the longest word and
returns it okay
now this code right here does not
actually matter what it says don't worry
about reading the implementation here
just trust me that it works so when we
look at this code and we try and run it
this is an example a test drive of this
library so if I create an S list and I
put in the words elk are watching and
then I asked for the longest word and I
click run or a deer tilts then I get
back watching because it is the longest
word in the list now there's a little
bit of an issue here which is it may be
someone out there who had a list of
words they didn't read it into an S list
maybe they did an A List instead so
let's simulate that process so if we do
this and we look at what happens after
we change from s list to a list we of
course get an error the error is that
well we can't give a lists to this
method so a pretty short little problem
I don't want you to consider what do we
need to do so that a list work what can
we change about this code okay so in
this case there's not a lot that we need
to change in particular we can just
change s L to a so in other words I do
that and now things will work just fine
okay so same idea everything works fine
in this case now of course it would be
annoying if somebody trying to use our
library had to constantly edit a list s
list so another solution would be to
actually just make another copy of the
method make this one a list based this
one s list based and in this case even
though these two methods have the same
name it's okay this code will compile
just fine and work because that's
something you can do in Java so this
idea of having multiple methods with the
same name but different parameters or
different signatures that's fine
Java will automatically it at the time
you compile figure out which methods
gonna get called and it will know which
ones gonna run and so this is just known
as overloading now this is not great
although it works this is a very crude
solution so while overloading does
technically work and it lets us run our
code in either case I think it's
terrible and so I want you to ponder
that like why is it bad maybe come up
with a short list and I'll spoil it with
my list so some things I don't like
about it are that one our source code
files of course are unnecessarily long
you look at them and you have all this
extra stuff that might not necessarily
be a big deal but it makes it messy
another is it's just aesthetically
terrible to repeat yourself right I mean
not only is the code long but it's so
similar nobody wants to you know it just
doesn't feel right another one is it's
more code to maintain now this is an
interesting point right code doesn't
really need maintenance in the same way
that a card needs maintenance it's not
like oh this codes gonna get you know
rusty and we gotta go fix it you know
you have to come back in and fix like it
changed desist for some reason that's
not a problem we have with computers
thankfully but if anything ever does
change if we realize oh this isn't
efficient and someone makes a change to
one of these then you also need to make
a change to the other or any other
number of little changes so any change
you make the one must be made the other
and this matters not only just for
efficiency reasons but any bug fix so a
common mistake in large projects is
somebody's written a method that has
some kind of bug in it and it's another
very similar method and they only track
down and kill the bug in one of the
methods and the other one continues to
live on that's a very dangerous thing
that can happen when you have repetitive
code like this the other one the final
thing I want to mention is that suppose
we decide I don't like just a list it s
less but maybe I also like D lists in
that case we'll actually have to come
along some later date and write another
D list function so this lecture is gonna
be about how we can gracefully deal with
this issue and take
advantage of what we get as a result
that will be inherited